hey everyone my name is Jay I'm one of
the teachers at e2 language comm I was
just saying that I've actually taken
this test why did I take it I didn't
need to take it I have no reason to take
the IELTS except for I wanted to have
the experience of taking it especially
the speaking part I wanted to experience
what it's like to sit there in that
little room with the examiner under that
sort of pressure I learned a lot I
learned a lot not just the sort of
linguistic skills you need but also the
psychological resilience you need as
well because it's stressful I personally
found part two of the speaking
particularly challenging is a nice word
to put it what I'm going to do today is
I'm going to show you a strategy for
part deux it works it really works I'm
gonna show you why it works it's gonna
maximize your score so just let me know
let me not do that I'm not
screen-sharing let me get this right
just let me get my slides and cool so
we're gonna look at IELTS speaking part
2 super strategy let's get started
before we begin I want to explain to you
what the examiners what the IELTS
examiner's are listening for in your
speaking because they have a checklist
right while they're listening to you
they have a certain checklist and
they're ticking off things ago hmm
okay pronunciation that's an ion 6 oral
fluency that's an ion 7.5 lexical you
know I'm gonna show you what that means
so you know what to do on test day let
me explain whoops let me explain here so
first one is fluency and coherence
fluency let's just call it fluency
fluency this means that you speak
without too many hesitations you speak
without arming and airing or pausing for
too long you speak without restarting
your sentences because you've made a
mistake this is your ability to speak
smoothly and
effortlessly right the other part of
this one is called coherence it has two
parts this there's fluency but there's
also coherence coherence is your ability
to structure your story well to
structure it well from beginning to end
cool so that's the first one they look
for the second one they look for well
here it's called lexical resource but
what that really means is how because
your vocabulary and and when I talk
about vocabulary what I really mean is
how precise are you with the words you
use it's one thing to have a big
vocabulary and to know lots of words but
can you use those words precisely to
convey meaning clearly that's what it's
all about that's what vocabulary is
words are little tools that you use to
give meaning are you giving the right
meaning to the examiner it's critical
I'm gonna show you a little bit of that
in a second as well
third one is our while it's called
grammatical range and accuracy this
means basically grammar fine that's easy
but it means it's really about accuracy
but it's also about what can we stay
here nuts accuracy it's about your
ability to be I guess it's about your
ability to be precise as well accuracy
and precision is probably the better way
to put that accuracy and precision can
you formulate can you create sentences
that convey meaning but do it accurately
so your plural nouns have an S your verb
tenses are correct etc the fourth one is
are your ability to pronounce words
clearly so pronunciation so
pronunciation this means that your first
language is not interfering too much
with your English and that the words
you're saying I spoken clearly and so
the examiner can understand you
immediately there's no sort of thinking
what did she say there What did he say I
didn't really get that has to be
absolutely clear so the examiner gets
you straight away so they are the four
things that the aisle
Examiners listen for while you speak
okay cool fine just a quick overview of
the IELTS speaking if you haven't done
it part one is small talk
you will answer a few simple sort of
questions about where you come from and
what's your favorite movie is something
like that it's pretty easy part two and
this is them what we're gonna focus on
today part two is the tough one where
you need to tell a great story for two
minutes right part three is also tough
this is a conversation between you and
the examiner based on the story so then
you discuss big ideas with the examiner
so that's the IELTS speaking in a
nutshell let's look at part two how to
tell a great story
so what will happen on test day is
you'll be sitting there like that and
I'll be the IELTS examiner and what I
say to you is I have a bit of small talk
and then what I do after part one is I
hand you a task card and I say here you
go
in fact with me I got handed a book and
in the book was a certain page and I had
to look at this page and the examiner
said to me okay Jay you have one minute
to prepare and then I want you to just
speak for two minutes about this topic
and I sat there and I looked at my book
and I can't even remember what my topic
was it was so boring it was such a
mundane boring topic and I thought oh my
god and I didn't really have a strategy
I didn't really have a strategy and I
wish I knew this strategy because this
strategy is good I'm gonna I got a nine
anyway because I just managed to do it
but I put myself under a lot of stress
which was unnecessary let me show you a
strategy that's just far better forget
the common topics there's the task card
that they give you it looks like that
this one this one for example says it's
got a little talk about a present you
received you should say who gave it to
you what it was what it looked like and
whether or not you liked it
okay it'll you it'll look exactly like
they're sort of three dot points right
this is what we're interested in we're
interested in a way to do this that will
make it easier for us and
also boost our scores what is that
strategy strategy is this I want you to
memorize it as PPF PPF what does that
stand for past present and future on
test day when you're about to do this
just think to yourself PP f PP f past
present future past present future we're
going to tell three stories not one this
is how we're going to maximize our
scores so here it is you get given the
task card and you look at it and you
have to talk about a present you
received and you're going to talk about
who gave it to you what it was what it
looked like and whether or not you liked
it but we're gonna tell three stories
we're gonna tell a past story a present
story and a future story
in other words words in other words
we're gonna tell a story about a present
we received in the past before now maybe
when we were a child maybe for Christmas
or our birthdays or whatever then we're
going to talk about a present story
something that's happened very recently
then we're going to tell a story about a
future present that perhaps we want you
need to manipulate this task card to
suit you right but it says on the task
card talk about a present you received
past tense it says that yes it does but
if we look back at our criteria of what
the examiners listen for in your
speaking there's nothing written about
you have to speak on topic the task card
is just a guide it's just a basic guide
to what you must say you do not have to
follow it precisely you should follow it
to some degree because it will guide the
way that you speak but you can certainly
tell three stories here past present and
future
that's fine you do not lose points for
speaking off topic and in fact if you
tell these three stories you're going to
gain points because you're going to your
your your lexical resource your
vocabulary will be better
your grammatical range
improve fluency and pronunciation are up
to you but you'll certainly if you tell
these three stories you're going to
improve vocab and you're going to
improve grammar and I'm going to show
you how so if you can maximize if you
can maximize this one and you can
maximize this one that means your
overall score is going to go up okay
fluency is up to you that's well that
depends on how good
you
arrange one-on-one tutorials with expert
teachers who can help you out we can
give you feedback on your speaking we
can tell you what you're doing right and
what you're doing wrong cool so let's
have a look at my past story so we're
going to look at this task card again so
I'm gonna talk about a present that I
received I'm gonna say who gave it to me
what it was what it looked like and
whether or not I liked it this story is
gonna be in the past right so I'm gonna
do this I'm gonna say this when I was
young I used to receive a lot of
presents from my grandmother she was
extremely generous although she had six
grandchildren she were oh she was always
excellent at giving presents to each of
us that meant a lot to us while she
would always give us presents on our
birthdays and at Christmas she would
also sometimes just surprise us I used
to visit her a lot when I was a kid she
lived in the city and our family lived
in the countryside going shopping for
gifts was always so exciting one
particular gift she gave me was a
cricket bat
there was an expensive one that was made
of English willow and I loved it had
very bright stickers on it I used to
take it to school and all the other boys
were jealous of it fine
what have I done I've told that's I've
told a past story using that task card
took me about 45 seconds that's all and
I'm lucky because I can also tell a
present story in a future story one of
the big problems that I see in IELTS
speaking is that people finish way too
quickly
you tell your short little story and
you're done in 30 seconds and that is
not good you need to speak for the full
two minutes and that's hard to do
without going round around in circles
that's why this strategy also works
because it gives you several stories to
tell
and if we look at this past story you're
going to notice a few things one of
course is that my vocabulary and my
grammar is going to be really good
because I'm using past verbs used to was
was was
mint would give would surprise you stood
lived lived was gave was loved had used
to were so by putting that story in the
past I have to change my verbs to past
tense verbs and this was great because
the examiners listening to me thinking
oh wow
James excuse me James really good at
using past tense verbs he's in fact he's
used a variety of them he's used a
variety of different past tense I've
used some simple ones I've you used this
phrase here used to I've used modal verb
plus a a present tense verb I've used
this type here so I've used a variety of
different verbs so what have I done
well my vocabulary score has just
increased and my vocab you add and my
grammar score has just increased as well
fabulous but it's not over yet because
I'm going to tell a present story so
then I moved to the present and what I
did by the way in that one minute
preparation time instead of stressing
and freaking out and sweating and
thinking oh my god how will I talk about
this mundane task color for two minutes
I thought all right past story grandma
gave me a cricket bat
cool present story okay girlfriend
currently gives me lots of presents okay
fine I'll do that
future she's I would love to in the
future get a present from my father
okay so that's all I've done I've just
thought there are my three stories till
the first one second one third one great
so present story more recently my
girlfriend gives me presents all the
time she is extremely generous most
recently she gave me a black a jacket I
love it it's trendy and modern and
really warm in winter I also give her
lots of presents although I'm not as
good at choosing gifts as she is she has
taught me a lot about gift-giving and
how important it is I guess
I've learned recently the gifts
especially in a romantic relationship
but really
maybe more important for women than men
she really likes it when I give her
gifts they don't have to be expensive
but something like a flower or a block
of chocolate makes her really happy but
yeah the jacket she gave me is something
that I really treasure and if we look
closely into this you'll notice that
I've used different verbs in the last
story I was using past verbs now all of
a sudden I've started using present
verbs gears years this is a past tense
verb that's fine I can slip a few in
love ears give Ann has taught I've used
a present perfect verb here great ears
I've learned another present perfect
verb are likes give don't have to be
whoa I care used a negative present verb
here makes gave that's a past one ears
treasure as a verb cool
so my second story was good it was easy
I only had to speak for about 30 seconds
40 seconds maybe and because I'm
thinking in the present I'm using
present verbs my grammar school has gone
up my vocabulary scores gone up and if I
concentrate on my pronunciation and my
delivery my oral fluency everything's
gonna go up so fine I've done that now
I'm gonna move on to this future story
I'm gonna tell a future story so here we
go
in the future I'd like to receive a gift
from my father
he owns a nice old motorbike I'm hoping
that one day he'll give it to me
I'd love to ride around on that
motorbike it's black and it's powerful
and it looks awesome I guess I'll have
to wait for that motorbike though as my
dad adores it so he won't give it to me
easily I might have to wait until he is
too old to ride it then I might have to
ask him politely whether he can give it
to me
I'd love to ride around on that the
countryside on that old motorbike and
that's two minutes the examiner will
stop me and say Jai you're done stop and
the examiner is gonna look at me and
think you're a freak you're amazing you
have just
three really good stories you've
demonstrated to me that you have a large
variety of grammar your vocabularies
extensive and because I was relaxed
because I had the three stories to tell
my fluency was good because I wasn't
stuttering I wasn't restarting sentences
I just concentrated on delivering those
three stories as clearly as possible so
and my pronunciation also went up they
are the four things that the examiners
listening for okay and as far as I'm
concerned I've just nailed it I'm happy
that was easy it made my life a lot
easier look at the verbs in this it's
important to end with a future story
even if it's just 20 seconds because
we've got I would this is a present verb
that's fine
I am hoping this is a present verb
present continuous but it's referring to
the future he will give I would love
these are present months I will have to
wait I won't give
I might have to wait I might ask so
we've used all these great modal verbs
here
another one here I would love to ride
basically I've just demonstrated all
this grammar to the examiner and she's
just thinking amazing amazing amazing
cool alright so the present story
whoopsie where's my past stories like
past story took about 45 seconds your
present story should take about 45
seconds your future story will be
shorter because no doubt you'll rush
through the the past and the present
story your future story should take
about 30 seconds that's fine long as you
get something in with those future verbs
again why is this an IELTS night I
really want to drive this home to you
well you're going to be more relaxed so
your fluency is going to increase and
your coherence that means the structure
of your story is going to increase
because you've told three you're not
just going round and round in circles
here it says in IELTS nine this is where
you develop the topic
appropriately fully and appropriately
great done that this is vocabulary this
means vocabulary and we've just seen
that by using all those different words
or vocabularies gone up grammar fine
absolutely skyrocketed why because we've
told three stories with three different
verb tenses modal verbs everything it's
fantastic
pronunciation this is up to you this is
where you might need help from us if you
do think that you need help with
speaking check out WWE to language comm
sign up for one of our IELTS packages
you get everything you need to succeed
and what you can do is you can take a
tutorial like a one-on-one tutorial like
this where the teacher will listen to
you and give you feedback on your
pronunciation on your sentence structure
on your fluency and on your vocabulary
there's also lots and lots of other
benefits to signing up cool rights nilly
your turn I'm gonna put you under the
pump now under the pressure I want you
to try I want you to try this past
present future way this strategy to
maximize your score okay I'm gonna be
the IELTS examiner I'm gonna sit here
I'm gonna give you the minute to prepare
you're gonna look at me you're gonna
look up and you're gonna tell me three
stories a past story present story in a
future story okay I'm gonna give you the
I'm gonna time you and I want you to
even if you want you can get your phone
out get your phone out and run the
stopwatch with me so you can see when
you get to about 45 seconds you want to
change from the past story to a present
story after another 45 seconds try and
squeeze in a future story okay let me
show you what you're going to be talking
about I'm gonna talk you through the the
prompt card because I am a nice IELTS
examiner I want you to get a nine I want
you to get a nine so this is what you're
going to talk about you're gonna about
talk about a song that you like okay I
told you these prompts were boring and
mundane you're going to talk about a
song okay but you're gonna talk about in
fact you're not gonna talk about a song
you're gonna talk about the
songs that you like or that you might
like okay so as I said you have to
manipulate this this is gonna be you
have to think of that future one's gonna
be hard past song that you like easy
present song that you currently listen
to easy a future song well let's see
what we can do with that so you have to
say what the genre of the song is okay
so think about the past song what genre
is it first of all it looks let's go
through let's go through I'm gonna talk
you through this so let's say this is
our one minute preparation let's think
about a past song to spend three seconds
than humor parcel remember that you
don't have to tell the truth by the way
you can sort of make stuff up it's not
about this isn't about honesty this is
about telling a good story not all
stories are honest or truthful so I'm
going to talk about my past story I'm
gonna talk about Bob Dylan song called
subterranean homesick blues cool so
what's the genre of my Bob Dylan song
well it's like let's call it folk rock
who sings the song Bob Dylan so I'm
gonna talk about Bob Dylan for a while
and why I like him what the song is
about well it's a political song it's a
political song set in the 1970s cool so
explain why I like it
well it's rocky it's upbeat it's fun
it's it's good to listen to and it's
also meaningful okay that's my past song
what about a present song a present song
that I've currently been listening to is
a band called Laura no no no no no no
I'm not gonna do lo a present song that
I've been listening to this is a bit
embarrassing been listening to this old
classic song by Carole King I can't
remember the song I'm just gonna I'm
just gonna make it up the song is called
um what is the name of the song this is
the by the way this is the kind of
trouble that you have in that one minute
I'm I didn't prepare for this
but this is what I experienced on test
day I really sat there and thought
Oh No Oh what's the net power to that
song called and then you just have to
take the easiest path possible so I'm
just gonna lie I've forgotten the name
of this Carole King song but I'm gonna
call it yesterday fine what John genre
of the song it is well let's say it's
like it's kind of like 60s 60s folk
again 60s folk fine I'll talk about that
who sings the song I'm going to talk
about Carole King what the song is about
it's about how she misses her boyfriend
and it's really beautiful and bla bla
bla it's kind of embarrassing that I
like this song don't tell anyone
fine so I've got my present song last
one well now I'm gonna tell a bit of a
lie because I'm gonna talk about I want
to listen to this band's new song called
the band is called Laura they're
bringing out a new album it's a they're
a rock genre fine who sings the song
well it's they're from their band from
Minnesota in America I really like the
lead singer their lyrics very
interesting what the song is about well
it's about moving from Minnesota to
Chicago and and and starting a new life
I'm making all of this up by the way I
have no idea about a future song but I'm
gonna sit there and I'm gonna just tell
this future story I would like to listen
to this new song by lo it's an amazing
song I've just heard part of it actually
on Spotify recently and the singer while
he is playing this amazing music talks
about how he's going to move from
Chicago
sorry Minnesota to Chicago to start a
new life and it seems to be really
profound and it has all this meaning in
it and the drums and the bass and the
piano just bring out all this profundity
that personally I like to listen to when
I whatever I'm lying I'm absolutely
lying but I'm telling a future story so
kind of weird to do that but that's it
what the song is about why you like it
cool now it's your turn now it's your
turn this I knew it was gonna drop out
your turn you have one minute to prepare
and then you
- look at me and you're going to tell a
story you're one minute preparation time
to tell three different stories past
story prison story and a future story
starts now
thirty seconds left
you
okay I want you to look at me and tell
me three stories in three two one go
it's 45 seconds now tell me the present
story
thirty seconds left
tell me a future story of a song you
will listen to or some you will like
and two minutes is up you can stop
speaking the examiner will just stop you
by the way this doesn't mean you've done
anything wrong it just means you've hit
that two-minute mark and that's probably
a good thing cool how did you go if
you're on YouTube click like if you like
this strategy leave a comment below tell
me what you think of this I'm interested
tell me tell me how your three stories
were okay I'm interested in this
information cool I was just thinking
while doing that it might be good to
start your stories if you're going to
tell a past story well you can start by
saying when I was young when I was young
I used to listen to this song by Jimi
Hendrix called all across what's it
called Oh castles made of sand for
example when I was young
present story currently currently up
scuse my bad writing here currently I'm
listening to currently I'm listening to
a story listening to a song rather by a
band called Laura in the future
I've screwed up my story completely here
future in the future so these are the
phrases these are the phrases that you
should use to start your three stories
because they will prompt you if you
start your story by saying oh when I was
young you have to then use past tense
verb when I was young I used to listen I
liked I bought a Walkman so I could
listen to it you're telling using past
tense verbs because if you used that
phrase when I was young and then
currently this is going to make you use
present tense verbs currently I have
been listening to a song by a guy called
bond over I'm just glad my memory is
terrible today fine in the future this
will make you use future tense verbs in
the future I would like to listen to
Lowe's new single that's coming out in
January 2018 it will be released blah
blah blah blah blah that's the way to
prompt yourself when I was young
currently and in the future cool give
go at this I'm interested I feel like my
speaking skills are terrible today but
I'm gonna try this okay I'm gonna try
this I'm gonna I'm gonna signal to you
when I've moved from past tense to
present tense to future tense and this
is how I'm going to do it my it starts
in 3 2 1
today I'm going to talk to you about 3
different songs that I like when I was
young I used to listen to this song by
Jimi Hendrix called all along the
watchtower I was obsessed with Jimi
Hendrix it's a kind of a rock I guess
it's a rock folk rock song originally it
was a Bob Dylan song but Jimi Hendrix
covered it and I believe that he played
it at a music festival in the 1970s and
it became massively popular in fact it's
probably more popular than the original
song and the song is a bit in the past
it's kind of medieval it's really
interesting and I like it because it
just has this beautiful musicality to it
currently I'm listening to this old
classic song by Carole King it's kind of
embarrassing but my girlfriend got me
listening to it and we recently visited
New York and went to Broadway and there
was a Carole King show that we saw and
this song was in the show it's also a
folk song and as I said Carole King
sings that who's a famous singer from
the 1960s the soul is about well it's a
kind of she's lamenting the loss of her
husband or boyfriend or something like
that but there's something very
beautiful about it I kind of like those
melancholic beautiful songs to be honest
in the future I'd like to listen to a
new song by Lolo or a really cool band
from Minnesota in America apparently the
new album is coming out and on this
album will be a great song that's about
them moving from Minnesota to Chicago
and starting a new life and I
particularly like songs that tell great
stories like that I like low because
they're a sort of rock I
they're a progressive rock band and
they're really sort of they're not very
popular but I like them a lot Oh would I
have got a nails 9 for that it wasn't
too bad it wasn't the best performance
that I've ever done this thing requires
practice and I haven't practiced in a
long time even for me a native English
speaker I need to practice doing this
cool
it's definitely a good strategy though
right what else we got for you here
that's all in fact cool thanks very much
for watching this one I hope that
strategy was helpful as I said if you
need help check out the website e to
language comm we can help you with
writing speaking reading listening the
whole shebang and we can do those
one-on-one tutorials to help you out and
give you feedback on your speaking I'm
now I'm just gonna answer a few
questions so if you in the webinar I'll
do this or if you're on youtube if you
have any questions please let me know
and let me know if you have any
questions all right
okay so abdullah took his test two
months ago and got a 7.5 which is pretty
good and he reckons that the reason he
got the 7.5 is because he kept talking
and killed
excuse me that's my phone until the
timer stopped so i think you're probably
right any questions any questions okay
i'm dual asks what if someone isn't
familiar with the topic great there's
one slide that i skipped by that i want
to show you actually hold on one second
i'm gonna show you the topics that you
might see on test day they're not
complicated topics you will be familiar
with them you're going to be asked one
of these things you might be asked about
festivals or a museum or here past
present future what was a museum you
visited when you were young what is one
that you recently visited and what's one
you want to visit in the future travel
where did you travel when you were young
we
are you travelling recently or where
will you travel RIT where do you think
you'll go soon and the future as well a
childhood friend well this says
childhood but not necessarily you can
just talk about a friend you can talk
about your childhood friend
a current friend and someone you would
like to be friends with what about an
important person same thing important
objects same thing food what did you
like when you were young what do you
like now what do you want to start
eating in the future music we did that
on movies what did you like what are you
watching now what do you want to watch
in the future relative same home well
you can talk about at home that you
lived in in the past where you currently
live where you want to live done school
where you can talk about your primary
education your high school you can talk
about your university and perhaps where
you want to study in the future so again
all of these question prompts it's
possible to create those three stories
the future story creates you need to nip
you late it a little bit to sort of
change it a little bit so you can tell
that future story but it is possible
cool what other questions have we got
what other questions cool someone has
asked me to check their writing we'll do
that in the tutorials thanks very much
for watching I hope this helped you
check out the website and I will see you
soon it's always a pleasure teaching you
you